# Persons in Context collaboratory
Thanks to the support of the [Center for Family History](https://cbg.nl), the knowledge of a groups of LOD experts and the Dutch community engaged in archives and research surrounding person observations, a Linked Data vocabulary was created to describe person observations in archives in a way that can be directly used in research. The vocabulary was created by reusing a combination of existing vocabularies, mainly Schema.org. For more information on the vocabulary itself, please see the [public webpage](https://personsincontext.org), the [git repository](https://github.com/CBG-Centrum-voor-familiegeschiedenis/PiCo) and the [academic paper](https://doi.org/10.51964/hlcs19312). 

The aim of this repository is to communicate about the Persons in Context collaboratory outside the border of the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, Persons in Context is applied to an abundance of records, including vital events, prayer cards, civil registries and enslavement records. Also, crosswalks for popular output formats are provides such as A2A (for archives) and GEDCOM (for genealogists). However, that does not yet make Persons in Context a universal applicable vocabulary. With this endeavour we therefore want to (1) gather examples of how Persons in Context can be applied to records containing person observations in other parts of the world; (2) discuss possible additions and changes to the vocabulary to make it more universally applicable.

We ask the community to 'donate' their examples of records that contain person observations. In the first instance, we focus on sources that are more frequently observable in archives (such as the ones mentioned above). Even if you are not yet aware of Persons in Context, we ask you to donate a sample of the type of records (preferably in a formatted text file (such as a .csv). We gather the examples by country (2 letter code) and then by record type.

You can share the examples with us via mail (data at iisg.nl) or if you know how to we hope you would please submit a pull request. If you have any questions, please hit the '[issue](https://github.com/rlzijdeman/persons-in-context-collab/issues/new/choose)' button and write down your question or comment. 
